[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: So
let's go back to client app.
js so save this, go to client app.
js and rename this to be clientapp.jsx
because we're gonna make this
all GSX fancy now.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so get rid of React.div because
who needs that business?
Get rid of the factory thing,
get rid of the CE part.
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna make myFirstComponent into
what's called a stateless component.
>> Brian Holt: I really,
really like these stateless components.
The reason being is that, so if we go back
over to myTiles just to take a look at it,
we use the React.createClass right here,
right?
That carries some overhead that we're
not necessarily using right now.
It has the ability to keep its own state.
It has some lifecycle methods.
All this stuff we'll talk
about it a little bit here.
But just so
you know that there's some baggage here
that you don't necessarily know you're
bringing along, that is being brought
along, that we're not using, right?
We're just using the bare bones for
creating a component.
So basically you have the ability to shed
that this baggage with what's called
a stateless component.
So let's write the verbose way
first I'm gonna say function,
>> Brian Holt: And then we're going to
return,
>> Brian Holt: This, right?
I mean this shouldn't look
too unfamiliar to you.
This just looks like the render method,
right?
This looks like the render method of
our MyTitle right, if you look at it.
So we have render and
it's just it does something and
then it returns react components, right?
Well that's exactly what this is.
This is essentially saying I'm yanking out
the render method I'm just using that,
and again this is really powerful
because it doesn't carry all the extra
cruft it's literally,
it's just a function, right?
Just what I've been repeating
previously that react
components are like divs each one's
composite bone is everything's a function.
Everything's a function and
I think that's it's really awesome.
So anyways this now works like that and
we're going to convert
this to be jsx real quick.
So this is gonna be a div
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
and then instead of all these
weird ways of writing this,
we're gonna write it one way.
>> Speaker 2: The parenthesis
should be outside of the closing div?
>> Brian Holt: Yes, it should,
thank you.
>> Brian Holt: And
I'm gonna rewrite these things to the top.
So I'm gonna say myTitle
title = whatevs color equals
rebeccapurple, okay?
And then I'm sure most of you have seen
inputs that or self-closing ties, right?
You do slash ending tag just so
you know if you're doing
an input the slash it is
optional in HTML 5, right?
And to the point that most
people leave them out.
They're not optional in JSX.
You must put the closing tag that's
letting JSX know please don't look for
a closing tag because there is none.
And actually it's to the point we
can actually even do things as self
closing tags that aren't technically
self-closing tags, and that's okay.
If you wanna do that, that's fine.
Another thing to definitely take note of,
lowercase basically means I'm
literally want to use an input
tag from React, right?
I want an input tag literally on the DOM.
If it's capitalized, capital M,
MyTitle that means that this
is something that I created.
This is not a real component,
this is actually a composite component
that I, the user created, right?
So that capitalization is significant and
you must do it or
react is going to not deal with it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So let's make a couple
more of these just for fun
>> Brian Holt: Papayawhip,
that's fun lets do that one.
>> Brian Holt: My title, title =
>> Brian Holt: You can do like,
>> Brian Holt: Great that's come in or
this is the one that Chris Courier
always does f06d06, right?
Some gross shade of orange I think.
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So let's see, so
this should work now on the other
thing is here my first component now
this is actually like a react
component that we've made.
So we actually have to surround this
one in, this is actually a tag as well.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions so
far about this?
>> Brian Holt: Give
you sec just to check that out.
>> Brian Holt: Mark P
said that he didn't know the Cap
plus component for the style thing.
That's fair to say because
it used to be optional and
it was only with in the past four versions
that did actually did become required.
So you're not alone in thinking that.
>> Brian Holt: The reason
why it's nice is not they no longer
have to keep a white list internally.
They can just say whatever
you're passing in lowercase,
you just expect to see in the DOM.
But what I say is just you have to keep
a white list of here's all the different
components that can be on the page
which is surprising and a lot, right?
There's a lot of different
tags in HTML5 as well as STG
you can do STG in react as well,
so good to know.
Okay
>> Brian Holt: Let's go ahead and
run this.
So we're gonna do npm run build.
>> Brian Holt: And
can't resolve file directory, yeah.
Now because we change the name of things
we have to go over to a webpac config and
change this to be .jsx, right?
Because we rename the file.
So we're in webpac config
line 5 entry is now
ClilentApp.jsx.
>> Brian Holt: So
save that.
>> Brian Holt: Again,
line 5 in webpack-config,
ClientApp.jsx and
so .js is which is what it was before jsx.
Okay, so let's go try that again.
>> Speaker 3: You still want
to be having js on the file as opposed to
a jsx on the file?
>> Brian Holt: I time out the resolve
extensions.
>> Speaker 3: That output it bundles
into js.
>> Brian Holt: So
you saying that you want balance to jsx.
The answer to that is no because that's
actually what's gonna be downloaded by
the browser and
if you look at the I mean if don't
because it's really gross looking.
But you can see that this
is all valid JavaScript.
What that .js means,
it means this is valid JavaScript.
So but that's a good question.
>> Brian Holt: So
it looks like I outputted just fine.
688 kilobytes which is crazy that weren't
including that much stuff we have to think
about now we're including react and
all the Babel polyfills which are pretty
big.
>> Speaker 4: Have you
found with a roll up that
that gets smaller because
the tree shaking?
>> Brian Holt: The answer is I haven't
done much serious stuff with roll up but
the answer is it should.
This will get much smaller if you go hand
pick the plugins that you want for Babel.
That's probably more than half of it.
>> Speaker 4: Gotcha.
>> Brian Holt: That's probably about half
of it to be honest.
With React, React actually uses most
of React is used when you include it so
treeshaking's not going to
do a whole lot for you.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so let's refresh and
now you should be getting three new
things right or whatever you put into
your jsx.
>> Brian Holt: If
you're seeing all of your old values and
colors.
It means your build probably
was not successful.
So that bundle did not get out put
it in still using the same one.
>> Speaker 5: Just to confirm in their
return statement in
MyTitle.jsx you can't have the,
I couldn't have the const style,
maybe, never mind I headline
seven after line eight and it didn't
work because you have to have everything
in the return statement wrapping and yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Right.
>> Speaker 5: That works.
>> Brian Holt: So just to
illustrate her point.
You can't have return,
this would work, right?
You could return five like that.
You can have like return x=6 like this,
right?
That doesn't make any sense because
I'll tell you what that wraps up to be
is.
>> Brian Holt: Right and
that just doesn't make any sense.
>> Brian Holt: So I do that all the time.
So don't worry about it,
it happens to me quite often.
You just have to make sure that
you're above the return statement.
Any other questions?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Can
you repeat the part about
the stateless component and
what the advantage that is?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, definitely.
So coming back here to client.jsx,
we could make this a create class, right?
Fairly easily, right create class
just to demonstrate that and
then that this would be
the render function inside of it.
The reason why we're doing.
So just a philosophy in general that
I believe is react gives you a lot
of power to do things
with these components.
But the more you limit
the scope of what you need,
the less surface area you have for
bugs, right?
And so because I'm not using any
of the lifecycle methods which
Kim will talk about rising in the state
management or any of those other things
worst limiting the surface area
that someone has to come in and
understand about this component, right?
They look at this and this is literally
just a component rather it's literally.
A function that does something and
returns the the component.
It's a little bit less cognitive
load to get your head around and
that's why I feel that these
stateless components are superior and
I also I'm not alone in that I feel a lot
of the community feels that way as well.
So yeah that's the general gist of it.
It's making things less cognitive load to
kind of low to understand it's like self
documenting sort of things, right?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 6: Does that mean this type of
component can't have properties?
Can't have props?
>> Brian Holt: You can, so
you just give props that way.
It just passes them in.
Right now it's not taking any props.
So it doesn't necessarily need them but
we could refactor my title totally
to just do it that same way.